US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
says Israel's prime minister has
reaffirmed his commitment to a ceasefire
proposal for Gaza blankin says the
honest is now on the militant group
Hamas whose Terror attacks on Israel
sparked the war after talking to
relatives of those taken hostage in Gaza
on October 7th he said the the longer
that this takes the longer that the war
goes on the higher the chance of the
conflict spreading
the families have been protesting
outside the hotel where blink has been
holding talks with Israeli officials on
Monday evening the UN Security Council
endorsed the us back ceasefire proposal
but there's still no official line from
Israel on the plan for the withdrawal of
troops from parts of Gaza the return of
hostages and a six-week truce that could
become
permanent let's listen to what blinkin
had to say to reporters in Tel Aviv a
short while ago everyone's vote is in
except for one vote and that's
AAS and that's what we wait
for um it is on Hamas to move forward
with this
proposal or or not and it's very clear
what as I said virtually the entire
International Community wants to see and
of course what so many families want to
see and it's
also what the people of Gaza so
desperately need DW's Rebecca Richard is
following blink's visit for us Rebecca
what did you make of what the secretary
of state had to
say well Anthony blinkin brought with
him Terry many of the messages he's
brought in his previous seven visits to
the region you said one there uh in your
leading he said that the longer this
goes on the the more likely this will
spill over into a wider regional
conflict that's something the US has
been concerned about from the very
beginning uh he also said that a hostage
deal is the only way to bring back all
the hostages uh that remain in Gaza and
it's the best way in reference to
potentially put a nod at the uh the
rather violent operation that took place
on the weekend to rescue four hostages
uh where you know scores of Palestinians
were also killed in that but what he
also said and you heard it from him
there he said that that everyone has
said Yes except for Hamas putting fur
the ball in hamas's court to come to the
table and agree to this deal that the US
at least is touting as an Israeli deal
and he said that Netanyahu reaffirmed
with him in their meeting that the
Israelis have a agreed to this deal
although we haven't heard from Israel
publicly uh that that is in fact the
case and it's certainly uncertain that
that is the case when you look at the
makeup of the current Israeli government
the farri right Coalition and those
far-right members is having more sway
now that the more moderate Benny gun
stepped down just a couple of days ago
uh from the war cabinet and from the
government putting a lot more uh onus on
the far right members of Benjamin
netanyahu's far right uh farri right
Coalition and they have said repeatedly
that they will not enter any enter in
into any agreement uh that that looks
towards a permanent
ceasefire Rebecca we saw protests taking
place outside the hotel where secretary
blinkin was staying there in Tel Aviv
what more can you tell us about
those well these weren't protests
against Anthony blink are against the US
in fact they're more in support of what
the US are trying to achieve here with
this trip and with this proposed plan
that Biden set out uh a week ago this is
many of the families of the hostages
friends and and others who support a
deal and are putting pressure on the
Israeli government rather uh to try to
get them to come and get on board with
this deal they desperately want to see
their loved ones return and they see
that a hostage deal is the only way for
that to to to happen Rebecca thank you
that was DW's Rebecca RS in Jerusalem